2022 Updates (#282)
JuliaDataScience/JuliaDataScience: contents/julia_basics.md

There are several functions to manipulate strings in Julia.
We will demonstrate the most common ones.
Also, note that most of these functions accept a [Regular Expression (regex)](https://docs.julialang.org/en/v1/manual/strings/#Regular-Expressions) as arguments.

> We won't cover Regular Expressions in this book, but you are encouraged to learn about them, especially if most of your work uses textual data.

Reviewer: Nice

> **_NOTE:_**
> For more complex HTTP interactions such as interacting with web APIs, see the [`HTTP.jl` package](https://github.com/JuliaWeb/HTTP.jl).

### Project Management {#sec:project_management}

One last thing from Julia's standard library for us to cover is the **`Pkg` module**.
As described in @sec:programmers,
Julia offers a **native project management solution**,
with dependencies and version control tightly controlled, manageable, and replicable.

Unlike traditional package managers,
which install and manage a single global set of packages,

> Julia's package manager is designed around "environments":

Reviewer: Can we stick to one sentence per line to avoid moving text around when comma's are added or removed?

Author: https://sembr.org/

Take a look at 5 there.

> Unlike traditional package managers,
> which install and manage a single global set of packages,
> Julia's package manager is designed around "environments":

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike traditional package managers,
which install and manage a single global set of packages,
Julia's package manager is designed around "environments" like Python's `venv`:
```

Author: I think that this is not the intention here.
`venv` is very different from Julia's `Pkg.jl`.

One major difference is the centralized package versioning local repository.
If you have 3 project that all of them uses `DataFrames.jl` version 1.4 then you'll have only one copy/precompilation of it in your `.julia/` folder.
Whereas in `venv` you'll have 3 local dot folder each one having its own copy of the packages.

independent sets of packages that can be local to an individual project or shared between projects.
Each project maintains its own independent set of package versions.

#### `Project.toml` and `Manifest.toml` {#sec:project_management_toml}

Inside every project environment there is a simple setup involving [`.toml`](https://toml.io) files in a folder.
The folder, in this context, can be perceived as a "project" folder.
The project environment is derived on two `.toml` files:

> - **`Project.toml`**: _higher_-level description of the project environment with the package list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`Project.toml`**: _higher_-level description of the project environment with the top-level package list.
```

> - **`Manifest.toml`**: _lower_-level description of the project environment with the dependencies list and versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`Manifest.toml`**: _lower_-level description of the project environment with the full dependencies list and their versions.
```

This file is machine-generated, which means that users are not encouraged to edit it.

#### Creating Project Environments {#sec:project_management_creating}

> In order to create a new project environment,
> you'll simply **enter the `Pkg` REPL mode by typing `]` (right-bracket) in the Julia REPL**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to create a new project environment, you can **enter the `Pkg` REPL mode by typing `]` (right-bracket) in the Julia REPL**:
```

```julia-repl
julia>]
```

Then it becomes the **`Pkg` REPL mode**:

```julia-repl
(@v1.8) pkg>
```

Here we can see that the REPL prompts changes from `julia>` to `pkg>`.
There's also additional information inside the parentheses regarding which project enviroment is currently active,
`(@v1.8)`.
The `v1.8` project environment is the default environment for your currently Julia installation
(which in our case is Julia version `1.8.X`).

> **_NOTE:_**
> You can see a list of available commands in the `Pkg` REPL mode with the **`help` command**.

Julia has separate default environments for each minor release, the `X`s in the `1.X` Julia version.
Anything that we perform in this default environment will impact any fresh Julia session on that version.
Hence, we need to create a new environment by using the **`activate` command**:

```julia-repl
(@v1.8) pkg> activate .
  Activating project at `~/user/folder`

> (folder) pkg> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(folder) pkg>
```

  [e2d170a0] + DataValueInterfaces v1.0.0
  [59287772] + Formatting v0.4.2
  [41ab1584] + InvertedIndices v1.1.0
  [82899510] + IteratorInterfaceExtensions v1.0.0
  [b964fa9f] + LaTeXStrings v1.3.0
  [e1d29d7a] + Missings v1.0.2
  [bac558e1] + OrderedCollections v1.4.1
  [2dfb63ee] + PooledArrays v1.4.2
  [08abe8d2] + PrettyTables v2.2.1
  [189a3867] + Reexport v1.2.2
  [66db9d55] + SnoopPrecompile v1.0.1
  [a2af1166] + SortingAlgorithms v1.1.0
  [892a3eda] + StringManipulation v0.3.0
  [3783bdb8] + TableTraits v1.0.1
  [bd369af6] + Tables v1.10.0
  [56f22d72] + Artifacts
  [2a0f44e3] + Base64
  [ade2ca70] + Dates
  [9fa8497b] + Future
  [b77e0a4c] + InteractiveUtils
  [8f399da3] + Libdl
  [37e2e46d] + LinearAlgebra
  [56ddb016] + Logging
  [d6f4376e] + Markdown
  [de0858da] + Printf
  [3fa0cd96] + REPL
  [9a3f8284] + Random
  [ea8e919c] + SHA v0.7.0
  [9e88b42a] + Serialization
  [6462fe0b] + Sockets
  [2f01184e] + SparseArrays
  [10745b16] + Statistics
  [8dfed614] + Test
  [cf7118a7] + UUIDs
  [4ec0a83e] + Unicode
  [e66e0078] + CompilerSupportLibraries_jll v0.5.2+0
  [4536629a] + OpenBLAS_jll v0.3.20+0
  [8e850b90] + libblastrampoline_jll v5.1.1+0
```

> From the `add` output we can see that Julia automatically creates _both_ the `Project.toml` and `Manifest.toml` files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the `add` output, we can see that Julia automatically creates _both_ the `Project.toml` and `Manifest.toml` files.
```

> In the `Project.toml` it adds a new package to the proejct environment package list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `Project.toml`, it adds a new package to the proejct environment package list.
```

you can **share** it with any user to have a **perfectly reproducible project environment**.

Now let's cover the other end of the process.
Suppose you received a `Project.toml` and a `Manifest.toml` from someone.

How would you proceed to **instantiate a Julia project environment**?

It is a simple process:

1. Put the `Project.toml` and a `Manifest.toml` files into a folder.
1. Open a Julia REPL in that folder and activate it as a project environment with `]activate`.
1. Instantiate the environment with the `]instantiate` command.

That's it!
Once the project environment finished downloading and instantiating the dependencies listed in the `Project.toml` and `Manifest.toml` files,
you'll have an exact copy of the project environment sent to you.

> **_NOTE:_**
> You can also add `[compat]` bounds in the `Project.toml` to specify which package versions your project environment is compatible with.
> This is an advanced-user functionality which we will not cover.
> Take a look at the [`Pkg.jl` standard library module documentation on compatibility](https://pkgdocs.julialang.org/v1/compatibility/).

> > For beginners, we recommend sharing _both_ `Project.toml` and `Manifest.toml` for a fully reproducible environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> For people new to Julia, we recommend sharing _both_ `Project.toml` and `Manifest.toml` for a fully reproducible environment.
```
